Pants 1.0 Release
=================

*Posted May 1, 2016*

The Pants project is proud to announce the 1.0 release of the Pants Build System.   Pants is a build system
for software projects in a variety of languages.  Although in use for years in production environments at
Twitter, Foursquare, and Square, we have now packaged the tool in such a way to make it easier to install,
configure and customize.  You can try installing it today with [one command](http://pantsbuild.github.io/staging/zundel/install.html#recommended-installation).

Pants is designed to work well with a large repository consisting of many smaller projects that share many
library dependencies (also known as a monorepo).

Today Pants ships with support for working with:
  - Python
  - JVM languages, such as Java and Scala
  - Go
  - NodeJS
  - C and C++
  - Android

Major features of Pants include:
  - Consistent reproducible builds
  - Fingerprinting based on file contents, not filesystem timestamps
  - A coherent, consistent build cache
  - Support for a distributed build cache using REST servers or NFS
  - Integration with IDEs such as IntelliJ
  - Incremental build support, including optimizations for fast Scala  builds
  - A modular extension system based on Python
  - Support for bundled python distributions using PEX
  - Integration with external python and JVM artifact repositories using PIP and Ivy
  - Bootstraps from a single install script

Although Pants has been in constant use in production environments for many years, the 1.0 release represents a milestone where we believe the tool is ready for general use. Pants releases are now distributed through [PYPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pantsbuild.pants).  [Installation](https://pantsbuild.github.io/install.html) is simple and bootstraps all the tools you need.  A powerful, modular options system allows you to control many aspects of Pants' execution.  Integration with Python and JVM repositories is robust and mature.

The Pants 1.0 release branch will maintain a stable set of interfaces for module developers and command line use.  Like Pants itself, pluggable third party modules can be shared through PYPI.  Non breaking improvements will be accepted into the 1.0 release branch. Additional features are planned for future releases.

About the Pants OSS Project

The Pants open source project is inspired by the Google internal build system known as Blaze, now available as the [Bazel](http://bazel.io) open source project.  It is used today to support monorepo style development in many companies.   The tool was born as an internal project at Twitter in 2011, and was distributed alongside the Twitter commons library.  In 2012, Foursquare picked up the tool and helped lead Pants development.  By 2014, Pants became a standalone open source project on [github](http://github.com/pantsbuild/pants) with intense collaboration from developers at Twitter, Foursquare, and Square.  Today Pants is used by [many organizations](https://pantsbuild.github.io/powered_by.html) supported by a thriving open source community with contributions from over 100 authors.  To learn how you can join this community, see the [Pants build website](http://pantsbuild.github.io/).

